docs: Add IsolationMode tech doc (#1237)
aave/aave-v4: docs/features/IsolationMode.md

# Isolation Mode

## Summary

> Isolation Mode enables new collateral assets to be added to the protocol with contained risk by registering them in a dedicated Spoke and Hub pair separate from the canonical market. Users who supply an isolated collateral asset in this Spoke can only borrow assets configured as borrowable for that market, up to per-asset draw caps set by the Governor. Because the isolated market lives in its own Spoke, users continue to hold unrestricted positions in the Canonical Spoke and any other Spoke simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Isolation Mode enables new collateral assets to be added to the protocol with contained risk by registering them in a dedicated Spoke and Hub pair separate from the canonical market. Users who supply an isolated collateral asset in this Spoke can only borrow assets configured as borrowable for that market, up to per-asset draw caps set by the Governor. Because the isolated market lives in its own Spoke, users can continue to hold unrestricted positions in the Canonical Spoke and any other Spoke simultaneously.
```

A draw cap on the Hub supplements the `borrowable` flag. The `borrowable` flag gates access at the Spoke level; the draw cap enforces an absolute ceiling on how much the Spoke may draw from a given Hub asset. Both constraints must be satisfied for a borrow to succeed.

## Bootstrapping Liquidity

A new isolated market initially has no native liquidity. Without liquidity there are no borrowers, and without borrowers, suppliers earn no competitive rates. Aave V4 addresses this by allowing a reserve in the isolated Spoke to reference the Canonical Liquidity Hub rather than the new isolated LH.

To bootstrap USDC liquidity, USDC is listed as an additional reserve (USDC') on the isolated Spoke with `Reserve.hub` pointing to the Canonical LH. The Governor sets a draw cap on USDC' in the Canonical LH, limiting total exposure of canonical USDC suppliers to the isolated market. Borrowers in the isolated Spoke draw USDC' from the Canonical LH under this cap.

> Once the isolated LH has accumulated sufficient native USDC liquidity, the Governor sets the draw cap for USDC' to zero. Existing USDC' borrow positions can still be repaid, but no new borrows are possible. Users then borrow USDC directly from the isolated LH. At this point the credit line is wound down and the isolated market is self-sustaining.

Reviewer 2: this one confuses me. I don't think USDC' can translate directly to USDC liquidity bc they're considered separate assets. Let's say the new Iso Hub has: USDC, CollA collateral. iso spoke has USDC', USDC, and CollA listed
- users use CollA to borrow USDC' up to cap
- USDC' drawCap on Canonical Hub then is set to 0
- it's the `existing` "stuck" CollA collateral that then attracts more organic USDC suppliers to Iso Spoke right? The USDC' still needs to get restored back to the Canonical Hub, and isnt maintained. 

So the bootstrapping is more like USDC' -> attract collateral -> attract USDC?

## Out of Scope

The following are explicitly excluded from Isolation Mode as a configuration pattern:

- **Account-level enforcement**: Isolation Mode is a spoke-level pattern, not an account-level lock. The contracts do not prevent a user from holding positions in the isolated Spoke, the Canonical Spoke, or any other Spoke simultaneously.

> - **Cross-Spoke health factor aggregation**: Collateral and debt in the isolated Spoke are accounted independently. Health factors are not aggregated across Spokes.

Reviewer: can keep "isolated" lower-case, but need the "for"

**Spoke-scoped isolation**: In Aave V3, Isolation Mode applies at the account level. A user who supplies an isolated collateral asset cannot use any other asset as collateral in that account; if non-isolated collateral is already active, the isolated asset cannot be added until it is removed. In Aave V4, Isolation Mode is spoke-scoped: the user is isolated within the isolated Spoke but can hold unrestricted positions in any other Spoke at the same time.

**Multiple isolated collaterals**: In Aave V3, only one isolated asset can serve as collateral per account. In Aave V4, any number of reserves in the isolated Spoke can be configured with a non-zero `collateralFactor`, making them eligible as collateral simultaneously.

**Per-asset draw caps**: Aave V3 enforces a single aggregated borrow ceiling shared across all borrowable assets in the isolated market. A 10,000 USD cap shared among USDC, USDT, and GHO allows a single asset to consume the entire budget, blocking all others. Aave V4 assigns draw caps independently per asset: a 3,000 USDC draw cap, 3,000 USDT draw cap, and 4,000 GHO draw cap each enforce a distinct limit so no single asset crowds out the rest.

> **Unrestricted borrowable assets**: In Aave V3, isolated mode restricts borrowing to a governance-approved list of stablecoins. In Aave V4, any asset can be marked `borrowable = true` in the isolated Spoke; the Governor defines the composition without a stablecoin-only constraint.

Reviewer: They are governance-approved stablecoins that can be borrowed against the isolated collateral. But the isolated collateral can be whatever asset, doesn't have to be stablecoin

> **Unrestricted borrowable assets**: In Aave V3, Isolation Mode restricts borrowing to a governance-approved list of assets. In Aave V4, any asset can be marked `borrowable = true` in the isolated Spoke; the Governor defines the composition without a stablecoin-only constraint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Unrestricted borrowable assets**: In Aave V3, Isolation Mode restricts borrowing to a governance-approved list of stablecoins. In Aave V4, any asset can be marked `borrowable = true` in the isolated Spoke; the Governor defines the composition without a stablecoin-only constraint.
```

# Isolation Mode

## Summary

> Isolation Mode enables new assets to be added to the protocol with contained risk by deploying them in a dedicated Spoke and Liquidity Hub pair separate from the canonical market. Users who supply an isolated collateral asset in this Spoke can only borrow assets configured as borrowable for that market, up to per-asset draw caps set by the Governor. Because the isolated market lives in its own Spoke, users continue to hold unrestricted positions in the Canonical Spoke and any other Spoke simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Isolation Mode enables new collateral assets to be added to the protocol with contained risk by deploying them in a dedicated Spoke and Liquidity Hub pair separate from the canonical market. Users who supply an isolated collateral asset in this Spoke can only borrow assets configured as borrowable for that market, up to per-asset draw caps set by the Governor. Because the isolated market lives in its own Spoke, users continue to hold unrestricted positions in the Canonical Spoke and any other Spoke simultaneously.
```

I want us to emphasize that the point of isolation mode is to allow new or experimental `collateral` assets, specifically. This is in contrast to siloed borrowing which deals with "isolating" borrowable assets

## Bootstrapping Liquidity

A new isolated market initially has no native liquidity. Without liquidity there are no borrowers, and without borrowers, suppliers earn no competitive rates. Aave V4 addresses this by allowing a reserve in the isolated Spoke to reference the Canonical Liquidity Hub rather than the new isolated LH.

To bootstrap USDC liquidity, USDC is listed as an additional reserve (USDC') on the isolated Spoke with `Reserve.hub` pointing to the Canonical LH. The Governor sets a draw cap on USDC' in the Canonical LH, limiting total exposure of canonical USDC suppliers to the isolated market. Borrowers in the isolated Spoke draw USDC' from the Canonical LH under this cap.

Once the isolated LH has accumulated sufficient native USDC liquidity, the Governor sets the draw cap for USDC' to zero. Existing USDC' borrow positions can still be repaid, but no new borrows are possible. Users then borrow USDC directly from the isolated LH. At this point the credit line is wound down and the isolated market is self-sustaining.

## Out of Scope

The following are explicitly excluded from Isolation Mode as a configuration pattern:

> - **Account-level enforcement**: Isolation Mode is a Spoke-level pattern, not an account-level lock. The contracts do not prevent a user from holding positions in both the isolated Spoke and the Canonical Spoke simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Account-level enforcement**: Isolation Mode is a Spoke-level pattern, not an account-level lock. The contracts do not prevent a user from holding positions in the isolated Spoke, the Canonical Spoke, or any other spoke simultaneously.
```
